PostgreSQL research

A PostgreSQL DataBase Administrator POST from enova financial CORP.

2010-06-05 23:57:29   查看原文>>

最近在看PostgreSQL国际用户协会组织的演讲PPT，发现澳大利亚的一家和金融相关的公司的核心库已经从MYSQL转到PostgreSQL了。
最主要的理由是MYSQL数据完整性问题，扩容问题，容易在表类型和静默truncate上出错。
迁移历经2个月。
目前在运行的postgresql OLTP系统1.3TB数据量，平均640tps,峰值超过4000tps
活跃数据100-200GB
出报告的数据库用的是londiste做的slave库
硬件系统如下：
Sept 2007 – 300GB, 4x dual-core, 32GB
Oct 2008 – 800GB, 4x 4-core, 96GB
Nov 2009 – 1TB, 4x 6-core, 192GB
。
这个消息对于正在使用和将要使用POSTGRESQL的公司来说是一个鼓舞，能够得到金融行业的认可非常的不错。
这家公司的CIO简介（2010全球年度最优秀技术领导者的TOP25之一）
Mark Friedgan  CIO, Enova Financial

Over the past 18 months Enova Financial CIO Mark Friedgan has moved much of the company's technology from proprietary systems to open source ones. For example, he replaced a call center platform without significantly changing the user experience, so the company didn't have to retrain the call center staff. The switch
in workstations from Windows to Linux also let Friedgan reuse his existing PC hardware, deploying a single boot image despite the use of several types of PCs. Furthermore, the switch to Linux lets Friedgan's team update and change workstations in real time over the network, only rarely requiring a reboot.

Enova now also uses an open source software PBX, which eliminates per-seat licensing fees. Plus, Enova can now use features such as least-cost routing, voicemail, and statistical tracking that would cost extra on a traditional PBX. And because of the PBX's open source nature, Enova has been able to write its own
applications to interface with it and provide new functionality such as call recording and automated dialing.

The key to this project was choosing technologies that both satisfied the business needs of the users and prevented vendor dependence while keeping maintenance and deployment easy.

看看他们对postgreSQL DBA职位的要求。

Database Administrator

Reports to: Director of IT

Responsibilities

Candidate will be involved in setting architectural direction and be responsible for implementing parts of the system

Lead projects independently and work with other members of the team to ensure its success

Establish a track record of leading projects, directing other team members on the projects and keeping projects on track

Recognize and recommend new equipment to solve needs and to perform the necessary stress testing of the recommended equipment

Analyze, recommend, and implement configuration and hardware changes

Plan, manage, and execute large scale projects

Troubleshoot, diagnose complex problems and to provide potential recommendations for resolution of issues

Support complex web-based applications

Qualifications:

Experience with high availability and load environments with large data volumes at multiple locations

Supporting large number of users in multiple locations a plus

Good working knowledge of SQL a must

PostgreSQL or other ‘real’ database experience a major plus

Scripting in languages such as bash, Perl, Ruby

Wizard at Unix shell scripting and expert at Unix command line

Experience with Linux or flavors of Unix from perspective of system administration in production environment are required

Good verbal and written communication skills are important

Bachelors degree in Computer Science or equivalent

5+ years of DBA focused system administration

