PostgreSQL research

[转]Total security in a PostgreSQL database

2010-06-11 20:25:30   查看原文>>

【原文地址】
http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/opensource/library/os-postgresecurity/index.html#download
Summary:  Database security is the single biggest concern with today's Web-based applications. Without control, you risk exposing sensitive information about your company or, worse yet, your valuable customers. In this article, learn about security measures you can take to protect your PostgreSQL database.
Introduction
There are lots of stories in the press about crackers accessing corporate databases. Gone are the days when prepubescent teens were the authors of most cracks. Today, data harvesting is big business and is accomplished by dedicated experts who work within a corporate infrastructure. It's not a question of how you can
prevent the unauthorized access attempt — you can't — but, rather, how can you reduce the effect when it does happen.
This article explores the challenges of protecting your PostgreSQL (also known as Postgres) database server. PostgreSQL is a powerful open source object-relational database system. It has a proven architecture with a reputation for reliability, data integrity, and correctness. It runs on all major operating systems,
including Linux?, UNIX?, and Windows?. It is fully ACID-compliant, and has full support for foreign keys, joins, views, triggers, and stored procedures (in multiple languages).


关键在这里，一个理想的DBA应该具备的素质:
The ideal administrator

In the grand tradition of UNIX, PostgreSQL was designed from the ground up to complement the OS it sits upon. Leveraging PostgreSQL to its maximum potential requires knowledge beyond the mindshare typically expected of the average database administrator (DBA).

In a nutshell, the ideal PostgreSQL DBA has the following background:

  • Knowledgeable of relational theory and familiar with SQL '92, '99, and 2003, respectively.
  • Knows how to read source code, preferably C, and can compile source code on Linux.
  • Can system administrate and is comfortable with the system-V UNIX or Linux.
  • Can maintain, if required, the various hardware items typically found in an IT shop. Understands the TCP OS layer, can subnet a network, tune firewalls, etc.

Many DBAs have only the skills to administrate, monitor, and tune the database itself. However, PostgreSQL is built to also rely upon the OS's utilities. It's a rare DBA who excels in all these disciplines, but having this knowledge enables the PostgreSQL DBA to accomplish more in less time than would otherwise be
possible.

其余的参考原文链接

