PostgreSQL research

bettermeans - an open and democratic project management tool

2014-05-22 15:27:50   查看原文>>

What is bettermeans?

Bettermeans is an open and democratic project management tool.

Unlike other project management tools that are based on tracking work in a command and control environment, BetterMeans allows you to work with your team in a more open and democratic way.

The bettermeans platform allows you to start your next project, run it as a democracy and make your impact.

Videos

Introduction to bettermeans

Tour of the platform

How does this fit into the larger picture?

Collective, peer-to-peer action

We are offering a innovative new work environment in which every team member has an equal voice, equal access to information, and agreed upon voting rules. Work flows quickly in the direction that the most active people are taking it. Decisions about what needs to get done and who is going to do it can now be done in
a more efficient, yet democratic way. Using a lazy-majority voting system, not everyone has to vote. And those who show up are the ones who influence what happens. People choose what to work on freely, not based on what they are told to do, but based on what is important to the team and they feel inspired to complete.
These inspiration-based work principles are the same methods that allow unfunded, volunteer-run open source developers to successfully compete with massive-commercial enterprises.

This probably all sounds jargony and ethereal, indeed it is different, but we want to show you how this new way of working can help you.

Features and tools

Follow the Quickstart Guide to get going on your project and see the platform for yourself.

Tools like the Dashboard allow anyone to offer ideas and collaborate on work.

The Activity stream allows you to follow all the work being done.

BetterMeans offers the option to use an innovative form of compensation, called credits, in which everyone estimates the value of work and compensation is based on peer feedback through retrospectives.

If you choose to have a public workstream, anyone can contribute and over time people gain membership in your workstream and a voice in the direction of the project.

Make team-wide decisions with transparency using motions.

If you are intrigued by the larger vision of the Open Enterprise, we suggest that you visit bettermeans.org where we are working towards this lofty goal.

The BetterMeans project management tool is the first step in this grander vision for right livelihood.

Vision and Mission

We provide the technology, legal structure, and business governance model that reduces the barriers to forming and participating in organizations that aim to better our world.

Simply we build the structures that enable people’s good intentions to be efficiently and intelligently channeled.

Out structures are scalable, sustainable, and decentralized.

Transparency and accountability are its pillars. They assume that we are all driven by good intentions and the desire for right livelihood.

Our prayer is to contribute to an environmentally sustainable, socially just and spiritually fullfilling world by making it easier for others to do the same.

Still have questions?

We are working to constantly improve this site, therefore please email us with your additional questions atsupport@bettermeans.com


[参考]
1. https://github.com/Bettermeans
2. http://help.bettermeans.com/


评论

last_samulayi - 2014-05-22 16:46:15

德哥，无限期待你的视频更新

德哥@Digoal 回复 last_samulayi - 2014-05-22 16:46:15

最近忙了点, 能晚上12点睡觉都是奢侈的.
感谢您的关注, 一有时间马上制作PG培训视频.

last_samulayi 回复德哥@Digoal - 2014-05-22 16:46:15

原来如此，辛苦辛苦，身体是革命的本钱，一定保重身体。
