PostgreSQL research

GreenPlum开源了

2015-02-18 10:29:41   查看原文>>

涵盖产品Greenplum, HAWQ and GemFire database products.
https://gigaom.com/2015/02/17/pivotal-open-sources-its-hadoop-and-greenplum-tech-and-then-some/
估计要在国内使用, 大多数商业软件要直接或间接开源了.


Pivotal, the cloud computing and big data company that spun out from EMC and VMware in 2013, is open sourcing its entire portfolio of big data technologies and is teaming up with Hortonworks, IBM, GE, and several other companies on a Hadoop effort called the Open Data Platform.

Rumors about the fate of the company’s data business have been circulating since a round of layoffs began in November, but, according to Pivotal, the situation isn’t as dire as some initial reports suggested.

There is a lot of information coming out of the company about this, but here are the key parts:

  • Pivotal is still selling licenses and support for its Greenplum, HAWQ and GemFire database products, but it is also releasing the core code bases for those technologies as open source.
  • Pivotal is still offering its own Hadoop distribution, Pivotal HD, but has slowed development on core components of MapReduce, YARN, Ambari and the Hadoop Distributed File System. Those four pieces are the starting point for a new association called the Open Data Platform, which includes Pivotal, GE, Hortonworks,
    IBM, Infosys, Pivotal, SAS, Altiscale, EMC, Verizon Enterprise Solutions, VMware, Teradata and “a large international telecommunications firm,” and which promises to build its Hadoop technologies using a standard core of code.
  • Pivotal is working with Hortonworks to make Pivotal’s big data technologies run on the Hortonworks Data Platform, and eventually on the Open Data Platform core. Pivotal will continue offering enterprise support for Pivotal HD, although it will outsource to Hortonworks support requests involving the guts of Hadoop
    (e.g., MapReduce and HDFS).

Sunny Madra, vice president of the data and mobile product group at Pivotal, said the company has a relatively successful big data business already — $100 million overall, $40 million of which came from the Big Data Suite license bundle it announced last year — but suggested that it sees the writing on the wall.
Open source software is a huge industry trend, and he thinks pushing against it is as fruitless as pushing against cloud computing several years ago.

Flag Counter
