PostgreSQL research

PostgreSQL 9.4+ partial stream replication by walbouncer

2014-12-25 10:28:04   查看原文>>

walbouncer是CYBERTEC出的一个结合PostgreSQL 9.4 xlog decode来实现分数据库, 分表空间的partial流复制代理.
从xlog解出关心的filenode, 将关心的filenode xlog信息复制到slave节点. 从而实现部分复制.
有兴趣的朋友可以关注一下.

walbouncer: Enterprise grade partial replication

  • replicate single databases and not just entire database instances
  • replicate individual tablespaces
  • easy configuration
  • supports PostgreSQL 9.4 and higher

walbouncer2

 

 

walbouncer is an enterprise-grade replication tool allowing partial replication for PostgreSQL. No more need to replicate entire database instances if only a single database is needed. walbouncer will filter the transaction log and replicate parts of the WAL stream to where it is needed and provides continuous
availability of data to keep transactional workflows and analytics operating at maximum efficiency all day long. Our walbouncer is the only known software capable of filtering binary PostgreSQL xlog and therefore offers superior technology for your needs.

Use cases:

walbouncer has been designed for a variety of use cases commonly seen in big as well as small setups.

  • Geographically distributed databases
  • Security critical data
  • Saving on valuable storage

Geographically distributed databases

walbouncer1

Replicate data all over the world. Make sure that people only see the data they really need to see. walbouncer helps to secure your systems by physically removing parts of a database instance from the slave instance. Distributing a database between geographical regions–is a hot topic in (not only) cloud computing
right now and with good reasons. Geo-distribution of data can offer many benefits, such as high availability, faster response times, easier scalability and data sovereignty. A geo-distributed database environment especially suits growing companies with a global user base demanding high application performance,
security as well as availability.

 

Key advantages:

  • Fully Open Source
  • 24×7 support by Cybertec Sch?nig & Sch?nig GmbH
  • Rock solid techology
  • Support for PostgreSQL 9.4 and higher
  • Easy to use

We help deploying your system and provide round the clock help to your technical team.

 

More technical options:

walbouncer supports synchronous as well as asynchronous replication. In addition to that the full feature set of the PostgreSQL streaming protocol is fully supported and usable with walbouncer.

walbouncer3

Download:

More technical information can be found here: Documentation

Download walbouncer 


[参考]
1. http://www.cybertec.at/en/products/walbouncer-enterprise-grade-partial-replication/
2. http://www.cybertec.at/wp-content/uploads/walbouncer.pdf
3. http://blog.163.com/digoal@126/blog/static/16387704020145271362827

Flag Counter
