PostgreSQL research

2014 VLDB conference at Zhejiang Hangzhou

2014-08-31 9:47:09   查看原文>>

论文下载 : 
http://www.vldb.org/2014/accepted_papers.html


Overview

2014 VLDB conference at Zhejiang Hangzhou - 德哥@Digoal - PostgreSQL research

VLDB is a premier annual international forum for data management and database researchers, vendors, practitioners, application developers, and users. The conference will feature research talks, tutorials, demonstrations, and workshops. It will cover current issues in data management, database and information systems
research. Data management and databases remain among the main technological cornerstones of emerging applications of the twenty-first century.

2014 VLDB conference at Zhejiang Hangzhou - 德哥@Digoal - PostgreSQL researchVLDB2014 will take place atHangzhou, which is one of the best tourism cities in China. Hangzhou is also one of the eight ancient capitals in Chinese history and one in the first group of National Famous Historical and Cultural Cities. The
West Lake in Hangzhou, known as the "earthly paradise", is one of the top attractions in China and abroad. Besides, Hangzhou is the hometown of tea and silk. Longjing Green Tea is the No. 1 among the top ten Chinese teas. attracts many tourists every year, and offers numerous opportunities for sightseeing (e.g., West
Lake, Lingyin Temple, Qiantang River), outdoor activities (e.g., hiking, cycling, boating), cluture tasting (e.g., tea, silk, traditional cuisine, Grand Canal ), as well as fun (e.g., Songcheng Theme Park, "Impression of West Lake" light opera).

2014 VLDB conference at Zhejiang Hangzhou - 德哥@Digoal - PostgreSQL researchThe conference is organized by Zhejiang University, which was established in 1897 and has long been considered as one of the top-three universities in China. Zhejiang University was honored by the well-known British scholar Joseph Needham as
"East Cambridge". More than 160 Zhejiang University alumni have been elected to Chinese Academy of Science and Chinese Academy of Engineering.


News and Announcements

OVERVIEW Info

VLDB is a premier annual international forum for data management and database researchers, vendors, practitioners,application developers, and users. The conference will feature research talks, tutorials, demonstrations, and workshops. It will cover current issues in data management, database and information systems
research. Data management and databases remain among the main technological cornerstones of emerging applications of the twenty-first century.

Important Date Reminder

  • Early Registration Deadline is NOW extended to July 17. Please register as early as possible.

VLDB2014 Registration Site is now open

Please go to the Registration Page and Accommodation Page for details. For information about travel grants, please refer to Travel Grants.


Flag Counter
